# Community-Detection-Comparison
WSU spring 2021 Element of Network Science project

In the world of online retailers, online shopping has become the main stream along the way. Products can be recommend following analyzation of a certain network build upon correlation. Either searching record or browsing record could establish a useful network for analysis, such as “Amazon co-purchasing network” we are going to analyze on. From the respective of betweenness, one can reveal potential products that fit particular customer. However, our team realize that the initial step for analyzing products network should be revealing potential groups of products. In such way, similar items can be considered as a bundle products. To be more precise, particular looking for items from a potential groups has a higher probability purchasing product from the same groups. And, therefore, help online retailer recommend products in a more efficient way.
Our team, thus, decided to utilize three detecting algorithms that helps finding potential clusters of items. To make this analysis closer to real-world, we chose the co- purchasing data gathered from Amazon, one of the biggest online retailer in the world, as our experiment target. Which, in this case, is more reliable.
Background study: According to a recent research, the number of people choosing to shop online is increasing, fewer people wants to buy goods on a physical departmental store due to COVID-19 pandemic. The user’s growth of sites like Amazon and Bestbuy provides an evidence of the trend. This result indicates that the development of online shopping has great prospects.
We will focus on the Amazon product co-purchasing network, based on customer’s preferences to recommend goods. As mentioned above, we are testing three existing methods(could be extended to five depend on research result) on the dataset. With respect to the Louvain method[1], this method is a method that extract communities from large networks created by Blondel. The method works for large networks and having the run time 𝑂(𝑛log! 𝑛), where 𝑛 indicate the number of nodes. For the Fast Greedy(FG) algorithm, easier understanding is that it implement greedy algorithm with some twists. Instead of simply walk through each nodes, the FG algorithm merges pairs of nodes or even groups in the network in order to enhance the modularity[2]. For the last candidate of this test target, we choose the Infomap algorithm[3]. The Infomap algorithm is similar
to the Louvain, but instead of modularization the Infomap uses the method called “map equation”.
Data: we will be using the dataset collected by crawling Amazon website at http://snap.stanford.edu/data/amazon0302.html. This dataset contains the data collected on March 2nd ,2003, including 262,111 nodes and 1,234,877 edges. For recent future work, we plan to analyze on other Amazon co-purchasing network dataset if possible. Such as data collected on different date.
